# Create a new project to deploy on Flakery using the Flakery nix flake template

Flakery provides a template for creating a new project that can be deployed on Flakery. This template is a nix flake that can be used to create a new project that can be deployed on Flakery. 

## create a new directory for your project

Create a new directory for your project and navigate to it.

```bash
$ mkdir hello-caddy
$ cd hello-caddy
```

## Create a new project using the Flakery nix flake template

Create a new project using the Flakery nix flake template by running the following command:

```bash
$ nix flake init -t github:getflakery/flakes#flakery
wrote: /Users/hello-caddy/configuration.nix
wrote: /Users/rw/hello-caddy/flake.nix
```

this adds two files to your project:

- `configuration.nix` - the nixos configuration for your project
- `flake.nix` - the flake configuration for your project

## Modify the configuration.nix file to customize your project

Modify the `configuration.nix` file to customize your project. You can add additional nixos modules, services, and options to the configuration file to customize your project.

here we are going to add the `caddy` service to the configuration file and have it broadcast hello-world on port `8080`. We will also enable the port 8080 in our firewall to ensure our caddy service is routeable from the internet. 


`configuration.nix`:
```nix
{ config, pkgs, ... }:

{
  system.stateVersion = "23.05";


  services.caddy = { # [!code highlight]
    enable = true; # [!code highlight]
    config = '' # [!code highlight]
      :8080 { # [!code highlight]
        respond "Hello, world!" # [!code highlight]
      } # [!code highlight]
    ''; # [!code highlight]
  }; # [!code highlight]

  networking.firewall.allowedTCPPorts = [8080]; # [!code highlight]
}
```

## Push your project to a git repository

Push your project to a git repository so that you can use the git repository as a source for your project in Flakery.

```bash
$ git init
$ git add .
$ git commit -m "initial commit"
$ git remote add origin
$ git push -u origin main
```

## Create a new template using the Flakery nix flake template

On the [Templates](https://flakery.dev/dashboard/templates) page, click the **Create New Template** button to create a new template using the Flakery nix flake template.

Paste the [Nix Flake URL](https://nix.dev/manual/nix/2.23/command-ref/new-cli/nix3-flake.html#url-like-syntax) of your project into the **Flake URL** field and click the **Create Template** button. If your git url is `https://github.com/sutro/tower`, the flake url would be `github:sutro/tower#flakery`. Note the `#flakery` at the end of the flake url. This is selecting the flakery output from the `flake.nix` file in your project.

## Deploy your project using the Flakery nix flake template

once you've created a new template using the Flakery nix flake template, you can deploy your project using the template. To deploy your project using the template, select the **Deploy** option from the **Templates Actions** dropdown menu on your template's detail page. 

## Promote your project to production 

Each time you deployment for a template is given a unique load balanced deployment url. This is fine if you never plan on creating new deployments for your template, but if you want to have a stable url across multiple deployments you can deploy your template to a production environment. This will instruct the template's url to point to the deployment that you have marked as production. 

To promote a deployment to production, select the **Promote to Production** option from the **Deployments Actions** dropdown menu on your deployment's detail page.